Hi, my name is Alison Hassel and I am the Public Relations Manager for Zoos SA.
I am in charge of all the PR related activities for the zoo.
So, I manage the media relations,
meaning I host any film crew or media when they're on site,
I put together media stories for the organisation,
so, write press releases, pitch stories to journalists.
I also manage all of the social networking for the organisation
which includes facebook, twitter, our blog site
as well as our YouTube channel and we also put out a
monthly external e-newsletter as well as
an internal newsletter, which we manage.
I'm really, really lucky to have the job that I do working with Zoos SA
and especially Adelaide Zoo because it's a job and a role
that encompasses both my personal and professional interests.
As a communicator, it is my job to
relate stories and ideas and messages from the organisation
and when those key messages encompass what I personally believe in
it makes my role ten times easier
and I absolutely love the animals and care for the environment
and really want to make a difference when it comes to our world.
My favourite part of the job, I'd have to say, is
the media relations aspect of it
as well as the social networking
especially because you can engage one on one with your audience
they talk to you, you talk to them.
I do get to interact a bit with the animals
however, now that I am the manager, I don't get as many opportunities like this
to be with the animals, but when they do come up I jump at it
because look at this, how special is that?
I'm originally from Los Angeles, California
and I've been living in Australia for about seven years.
I moved to Adelaide in 2009 to undertake the
Bachelor of Public Relations at the University of South Australia.
Studying at the University of South Australia gave me a practical and theoretical
knowledge of the PR industry that set me on a course
to realise my professional dreams.
The learning and support environment created by staff
at the University of South Australia was also instrumental in my success to date.
I found the students to be very friendly and inviting and the
lecturers and tutors were definitely there for you throughout the whole course
whether it was getting in touch with them after hours or
staying back for a few minutes to have a little bit of extra time with them.
I undertook my internship placement in my third year of study at the university.
We could pretty much undertake our internship in any industry
in any organisation, because the PR industry itself is quite vast.
You'd be quite surprised where you could work in Public Relations.
When I first started the degree, I had no idea that I could work at a zoo, for instance.
I think it's also vital for students to take those opportunities
to further their learning outside of the classroom
whether it be going to university arranged events
or through some sort of professional industry body
Those are the chances that you'll get to work on your personal brand
and develop those relationships that will progress you further in your career
once you have a great theoretical background and foundation
that the university will provide.
[ There's no more meal worms. They're probably on the ground becasue you threw it all on the ground. ]